The first time I heard about continuous integration was when
I was on a project working for the IRS in the United States,
I was part of a team of about six developers and we
were all working more or less on the same code base.
Tensions were almost always constantly high,
and someone was always checking in new code,
new bugs, or compile errors.
Half the time the developer who introduced the bug didn't even know about it
until hours or days later when it was discovered by another developer.
With an aggressive delivery schedule bearing down
on us and all of these integration problems,
I truly dreaded going to work every day.
Then, one of the senior developers installed Team City,
which was a continuous integration tool.
He can figured Team City to watch our repository and run some scripts on every commit.
Then he said whoever breaks the build fixes the build.
The effect was almost instant.
Integration issues went from daily to weekly and eventually monthly.
Our code quality started increasing.
We even started taking better care of
our unit tests since they could break the build too.
Since then, I always insist on some CI tool when working on a team.
In this lesson, I hope to give you enough information and
practice in the art of continuous integration that
you too will be able to adopt and implement it in any of your future projects.
Together, we will learn about CI and how it fits
into the bigger picture so that you can make great decisions on how to use it.
We'll discuss some behaviors of
CI veterans so that you can emulate those behaviors and dazzle your coworkers.
We'll talk about some of the different CI tools out
there so that you'll be more tool agnostic.
We'll go over some of the common building blocks
of most CI tools like environment variables,
triggers, pipelines, jobs, file-sharing between jobs,
reusable job code, and job failures, things like that.
Also that you'll be equipped with what it takes to
build complete CI pipelines. Let's get started.